This section describes the characteristics of where submissions were received from. This can help to identify how representative submissions were and whether there were any communities whose views were not being considered. Figure \ref{fig-wards} shows the number (frequency) of submitted representations by Ward based on the address attached to the submission. To interpret the figure, areas which are coloured white had no submissions from residents, and then areas are coloured in based on the total number of submissions with yellows and greens representing the largest numbers. This figure helps to identify which Wards are more active in terms of participation and representation in this report.

Figure \ref{fig-oas} displays the percentage of representations submitted by the Output Area Classification (2021). The Output Area Classification is the Office for National Statistics preferred classification of neighbourhoods.  This measure groups neighbourhoods (here defined as Output Areas, typically containing 100 people) into categories that capture similar types of people based on population, demographic and socioeconomic characteristics. It therefore provides an insightful view of the types of communities who submitted representations. To interpret the figure, where bars extend higher/upwards, this represents a larger population share within a specific area type. The blue bars represent the characteristics of who submitted representations, and the orange bars represent the underlying population – allowing one to compare whether the profile of submissions matched the characteristics of the local population. This figure uses OAC 'Supergroups', which are the highest level of the hierarchy, and provide information relative to the average values for the UK population at large.

Figure \ref{fig-imd} shows the percentage of responses by level of neighbourhood socioeconomic deprivation. The information is presented using the 2019 Index of Multiple Deprivation, divided into quintiles (i.e., dividing the English population into equal fifths). This measure is the UK Government’s preferred measure of socioeconomic deprivation and is based on information about income, employment, education, health, crime, housing and the local environment for small areas (Lower Super Output Areas, typically containing 1600 people). To interpret the graph, bars represent the share of population from each quintile. Quintile 1 represents the most deprived 20% of areas, and quintile 5 the least deprived 20% of areas. The orange bars represent the distribution of people who submitted representations (i.e., larger bars mean that more people from these areas submitted representations). The blue bars show the distribution of the local population, allowing one to evaluate whether the evidence submitted was from the same communities in the area.
